README.md, before:

What is it ?
============

IDOK (kodi reversed name) is a Go program that allows to serve medias to your Kodi plateform (raspbmc, xbmc...)

You may be able to send video, images and music from your computer.

Idok has got two modes:

* your computer serve media from a standard port (default 8080)
* your computer dig a tunnel and serve media

Installation
============

You can clone repository and compile source code yourself:

	git clone http://git.develipsum.com/metal3d/idok.git
	cd idok
	go build idok.go

Then you can put binary in your PATH:

	mkdir -p ~/.local/bin
	cp idok ~/.local/bin

You can now ask some help:

	idok -h
	Usage of idok:
	  -login="": jsonrpc login (configured in xbmc settings)
	  -password="": jsonrpc password (configured in xbmc settings)
	  -port=8080: local port (ignored if you use ssh option)
	  -ssh=false: Use SSH Tunnelling (need ssh user and password)
	  -sshpass="raspberry": ssh password
	  -sshuser="pi": ssh login
	  -target="": xbmc/kodi ip (raspbmc address, ip or hostname)


There is a build for x86_64 cpu (if you're computer is not too old, this is ok) that is available (TODO: give the url)

Stream your first media
=======================


## HTTP (default)

The HTTP way is not secured. While you're streaming to Kodi (or XBMC), the media can be accessed by other computer in your network. That's not a big problem while you're not streaming important information (restricted video). 

This solution need to open port on your firewall. 

By default, idok opens 8080 port (http-alternative), but you can specify other port using "-port" option.

At first, you must be sure that the port is opened. To open firewall port on you linux installation:

	firewall-cmd --add-port=8080/tcp

When you will reload firewall, or restart computer, the port will be closed. If you want to keep that port opened:

	firewall-cmd --add-port=8080/tcp --permanent

Then, send media:

	idok -target=IP_OF_KODI_OR_XBMC /path/to/media.mp3

If you've opened other port, you can set it. For example for port 1234:

	idok -port=1234 -target=IP_OF_KODI_OR_XBMC /path/to/media.mp3


## SSH

The SSH way is the easier and more secured way. Easier because you don't have to open port on your computer and only the Kodi instance will be able to access your content.

But... Unfortunately, raspbmc has a little problem with ssh server. But it's not very hard to fix but you'll had to do some configuration...

At first, the standard information that I must write:

**I will not be responsible about malfunction, bad usage or error. Follow instruction with caution and please make a backup before doing anything.**

Now that you know that, we can continue.

We will replace dropbear by openssh-server.

	$ ssh pi@YOUR_RASPBMC_IP
	$ sudo nano /etc/default/dropbear

Change DROPBEAR_PORT value to "2222" then save by pressing CTRL+X then Y

Changing port before removing the dropbear server is secured. If openssh-server installation failed, you will be able to connect to RaspBMC using "-p 2222" with your ssh command line.

Now, install openssh-server:

	$ sudo apt-get update
	$ sudo apt-get -y openssh-server

After installation, you should restart your raspberry
	
	$ sudo reboot

The next time you want to ssh your raspbmc, your computer will complain about fingerprint changes. Just open your ~/.ssh/known_hosts and remove the corresponding line for your raspberry ip.

That's it, you have finished openssh installation. Now try to send data:

	idok -ssh -target=IP_OF_RASPBERRY /path/to/media.mp3

Your kodi should open the file.

Pressing CTRL+C should stop media stream and exit program.

Options
=======

There are other options that may be usefull:

* -target: kodi instance ip or hostname 
* -login : xbmc or kodi login configured on web interface settings
* -password : xbmc or kodi password configured on web interface settings
* -ssh : If set, idok will dig ssh tunnel to stream content
* -sshuser : if you don't user "pi" user
* -sshpass : if you changed standard password of "pi" user
* -port : local port for media stream if you don't use ssh tunneling, default is 8080

TODO
====

I should ask dropbear maintainer why the tunneling won't work. Installing openssh-server on raspbmc can be complicated for some users.

Add ssh port option.

Add kodi/xbmc port option (some users changed the default 80)

Commit message:

Changed options and give access to a built binary

README.md, after:

What is it ?
============

IDOK (kodi reversed name) is a Go program that allows to serve medias to your Kodi plateform (raspbmc, xbmc...)

You may be able to send video, images and music from your computer.

Idok has got two modes:

* your computer serve media from a standard port (default 8080)
* your computer dig a tunnel and serve media

Installation
============

## Install distribution

You can install idok binarie for your user:

	mkdir -p ~/.local/bin
	wget http://dists.metal3d.org/idok -O ~/.local/bin/idok

Check that ~/.local/bin is in your PATH. Then try to call:

	idok -h

**Warning: idik is built for 64bit computers**

## Install from source

You can clone repository and compile source code yourself:

	git clone http://git.develipsum.com/metal3d/idok.git
	cd idok
	go build idok.go

Then you can put binary in your PATH:

	mkdir -p ~/.local/bin
	cp idok ~/.local/bin


## Options

You can now ask some help:

	idok -h
	Usage of idok:
	 -login="": jsonrpc login (configured in xbmc settings)
	 -password="": jsonrpc password (configured in xbmc settings)
	 -port=8080: local port (ignored if you use ssh option)
	 -ssh=false: Use SSH Tunnelling (need ssh user and password)
	 -sshpass="raspberry": ssh password
	 -sshport=22: target ssh port
	 -sshuser="pi": ssh login
	 -target="": xbmc/kodi ip (raspbmc address, ip or hostname)


Stream your first media
=======================

## HTTP (default)

The HTTP way is not secured. While you're streaming to Kodi (or XBMC), the media can be accessed by other computer in your network. That's not a big problem while you're not streaming important information (restricted video). 

This solution need to open port on your firewall. 

By default, idok opens 8080 port (http-alternative), but you can specify other port using "-port" option.

At first, you must be sure that the port is opened. To open firewall port on you linux installation:

	firewall-cmd --add-port=8080/tcp

When you will reload firewall, or restart computer, the port will be closed. If you want to keep that port opened:

	firewall-cmd --add-port=8080/tcp --permanent

Then, send media:

	idok -target=IP_OF_KODI_OR_XBMC /path/to/media.mp3

If you've opened other port, you can set it. For example for port 1234:

	idok -port=1234 -target=IP_OF_KODI_OR_XBMC /path/to/media.mp3


## SSH

The SSH way is the easier and more secured way. Easier because you don't have to open port on your computer and only the Kodi instance will be able to access your content.

But... Unfortunately, raspbmc has a little problem with ssh server. But it's not very hard to fix but you'll had to do some configuration...

At first, the standard information that I must write:

**I will not be responsible about malfunction, bad usage or error. Follow instruction with caution and please make a backup before doing anything.**

Now that you know that, we can continue.

We will replace dropbear by openssh-server.

	$ ssh pi@YOUR_RASPBMC_IP
	$ sudo nano /etc/default/dropbear

Change DROPBEAR_PORT value to "2222" then save by pressing CTRL+X then Y

Changing port before removing the dropbear server is secured. If openssh-server installation failed, you will be able to connect to RaspBMC using "-p 2222" with your ssh command line.

Now, install openssh-server:

	$ sudo apt-get update
	$ sudo apt-get -y openssh-server

After installation, you should restart your raspberry
	
	$ sudo reboot

The next time you want to ssh your raspbmc, your computer will complain about fingerprint changes. Just open your ~/.ssh/known_hosts and remove the corresponding line for your raspberry ip.

That's it, you have finished openssh installation. Now try to send data:

	idok -ssh -target=IP_OF_RASPBERRY /path/to/media.mp3

Your kodi should open the file.

Pressing CTRL+C should stop media stream and exit program.

Options
=======

There are other options that may be usefull:

* -target: kodi instance ip or hostname 
* -login : xbmc or kodi login configured on web interface settings
* -password : xbmc or kodi password configured on web interface settings
* -ssh : If set, idok will dig ssh tunnel to stream content
* -sshuser : if you don't user "pi" user
* -sshpass : if you changed standard password of "pi" user
* -sshport : if you changed standard ssh port or to use other ssh server (default is 22)
* -port : local port for media stream if you don't use ssh tunneling, default is 8080

TODO
====

I should ask dropbear maintainer why the tunneling won't work. Installing openssh-server on raspbmc can be complicated for some users.

Add kodi/xbmc port option (some users changed the default 80)
